This material we're talking about the difference between training and testing a model and how to avoid
overfitting.
Here we've got the data set that we want to build a model for and what we've learned so far is that
we have to simply select the right parameters and throw them into a logistic regression and that will
spit out scores of probabilities that we'll be able to use in our judgment graphic segmentation.
And that is all good.
However you might want to take a part of your data set a sample so a random sample about 10 to 20 percent
and split them separate them from the people that or the requisites are actually going to be in putting
into your model.
And why is that.
Well the reason for that is that then you can move these people aside all these records you can train
your model just on the remaining 80 or 90 percent of your population or of the sample that you're training
a model on.
And then later you can test how your model works on the sample that you separate.
And that way you will be sure that that test the second test is not biased.
So as a result of testing this model or training it and then testing it you'll come you'll have to accuracy
rates accuracy ratios.
So what acceleration will be for the train data and that is the larger data set.
There will be building a model for.
And then you will have an accuracy ratio for your test data set.
The smaller one.
So the first ratio the trainer ratio even though it does tell us a lot about the model at the same time
.
It might be a bit biased because we did use the same data set to build the model and now we're checking
how the model predicts that same data set whereas the test data set is completely separate from the
model.
Those records were not used in the construction of the model and therefore the second accuracy ratio
that you will get will be a validation for the first so if you see a significant difference then that
means that perhaps your model might be over fitted for the data that was used to generate this model
.
Remember we talked about overfitting that if your model relies on some anomalies or some specifics of
that data set that you put into the model then it might become overfitting.
And then when you apply to real data the results might be different.
Well here you kind of creating a safety net for yourself that you feel was refitted or if the model
was isn't the best performing model so it's just working good on the training data set.
Then you won't find this out on real data when you actually make predictions you'll find out early on
you will see it on the test data set.
And that way you'll be able to rebuild the model.
So if something goes wrong you just go back and you use the old training data set to build a different
model then you do the same procedure.
So separating a test data set is very common.
It is actually a standard technique used in modeling and you should definitely do that when you are
creating your own models.
In our example when we're building our Joe demographic segmentation the test data set has already been
provided for us and we use as you'll see in this section we'll be using that to verify the model that
we've already created.
However further down in this course I will show you some tips and tricks on how to properly separate
a test not a set because even such a trivial procedure has some under-water stones that come with it
.
So we'll definitely talk about separating your training and testing data sets further down in the course